# Compare-HBE-DNA
 Comparative analysis of hydrogen bond energy between protein-ssDNA and protein-dsDNA complexes"

 ## Abstract

 Protein-DNA interactions are fundamental to essential biological processes such as DNA repair, DNA replication, and regulation of gene expression. These interactions generally occur between proteins and two different DNA forms, double-stranded (dsDNA) and single-stranded (ssDNA), each with unique structural and functional properties. While dsDNA consists of two complementary strands wound into a double helix stabilized by base pairing and base stacking interactions that allow for compact storage of genetic information, ssDNA exists as a single strand, offering greater flexibility and exposing bases for interactions that facilitate DNA repair, replication and maintaining genome stability and integrity. One of the critical forces mediating these interactions are hydrogen bonds, which are weak, noncovalent interactions. Previous research has demonstrated hydrogen bonds as a crucial factor for binding specificity in protein-DNA complexes.

Building on our recent large-scale analysis of protein-ligand complexes, which identified a special pattern of hydrogen bond energy distribution in protein-DNA complexes when compared with other types of protein-ligand complexes, this study delves deeper into protein-DNA interactions. Specifically, we aim to carry out a comparative analysis of hydrogen bond energies across different DNA types and binding specificities. Using program FIRST for hydrogen bond energy calculations, we compare hydrogen bond energies  with non-redundant protein-DNA complexes, providing new insights into the role of hydrogen bonds in terms of DNA types and binding specificity. 
